# Climate Claims
## More Trees Do Not Always Create A Cooler Planet
Researchers at Clark University discovered that some forests in the United States contribute to global warming. This demonstrates that deforestation will not always lead to global warming, as in some cases, it can be used to cool the planet (Rotter, 2021). Forests are known to take in carbon dioxide and store it, slowing down the accumulation of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. That being said, trees undergo the albedo effect because they are dark and can absorb sunlight and retain heat. The study found that around 25% of the country, deforestation led to net cooling because the albedo effect outweighed the carbon effect (Rotter, 2021). Moreover, forest loss east of the Mississippi Rover and in Pacific Coast state led to net warming, whereas forest loss in the Intermountain West and Rock Moutain West led to net cooling. Therefore, expanding forest area is not a viable method to cool the planet or mitigate global warming as both the albedo and carbon effects need to be considered (Rotter, 2021). 

Forests absorb around 2.6 billion tonnes (IUCN, 2017) of carbon dioxide released from burning fossil fuels every year, hence many countries struggling to control their carbon emission plan to plant vast number of trees (Popkin, 2019). This claim is significant as it shows that the issue with carbon emissions cannot be fixed by planting more trees. Also, it outlines the pros and cons of both deforestation and forest expansion, demonstrating the uncertainty surrounding forestation. Thus, it is important for more research to be conducted to identify the right regions to plant trees. This study was conducted in the United States, and similar research in other parts of world needs to be conducted to see whether this applies globally or not. 

The author of the article itself does not have credibility, however, the study referenced in the article does as it was conducted by an environmental scientist and professor at Clark University. The article includes a link to the research article being discussed but the general public is unable to access it. The article was written to provide new information to the general public, but this intent is contradicted as the link provided is unaccesible. As a result, information must be extracted from this article which is a climate blog made by a former television meterologist, therefore it is an unrealiable source. Hence, the need for additional sources is required to ensure information is accurate and unbiased. 

The original research paper (Williams, Gu and Jiao, 2021) was assessed to determine whether the information of the article is accurate. The findings of the paper state that the albedo effect remains dominant for approximately 27% of the country (Williams, Gu and Jiao, 2021). Forest losses in West Coast states and east of the Mississippi River resulted in net warming due to radioactive forcing from carbon emissions and lost net ecosystem productivity overtime. Forest loss in the western United States resulted in net cooling (Williams, Gu and Jiao, 2021). Therefore, the findings of the paper align with those of the article, demonstrating that the information in the article is accurate. These claims are further supported by a paper (Shindell et al., 2009) investigating the volatile organic compounds (VOCs) emitted by trees. The results of the paper state that trees in tropical and temperate zones have large amounts of a chemical called isoprene that can warm the planet by reacting with nitrogen oxide to form ozone, lengthen the lifetime of atmospheric methane, and produces aerosol particles that blocks incoming sunlight. Overall, increasing Earth’s albedo effect (Shindell et al., 2009). Overall, the article was accurate but the credibility and authority can be questioned as the information was extracted from another resource which was not cited and the reference provided was accessible.

## References 
IUCN, 2017. *Forests and climate change.* [online] IUCN. Available at: <br>https://www.iucn.org/resources/issues-briefs/forests-and-climate-change<br>

Popkin, G., 2019. How much can forests fight climate change? *Nature*, 565(7739), pp.280–282.

Rotter, C., 2021. *More trees do not always create a cooler planet, Clark University geographer finds.* [online] Watts Up With That? Available at: <br>https://wattsupwiththat.com/2021/02/14/more-trees-do-not-always-create-a-cooler-planet-clark-university-geographer-finds/<br>

Shindell, D.T., Faluvegi, G., Koch, D.M., Schmidt, G.A., Unger, N. and Bauer, S.E., 2009. Improved Attribution of Climate Forcing to Emissions. 

Williams, C.A., Gu, H. and Jiao, T., 2021. Climate impacts of U.S. forest loss span net warming to net cooling. *Science Advances*, 7(7), p.eaax8859.
